                              MYSHELL MANUAL
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INTRODUCTION

  This is a simple emulation of a Unix shell. It allows the user to navigate
  their system's directories and run executable files. It can be controlled by
  the user inputting individual commands (interactive mode) or it can be run
  with a file containing commands that the shell can read and execute
  (batchmode). Along with running executable files, this shell has several
  builtin commands that are used to access and change different variables
  within the shell.

            ---------------------------------------------------------


DEFINITIONS

arg
  An argument that is passed for a command to use.

batchmode
  When the shell is run with a file containing commands, it will read the file
  line by line, executing the commands until the end of the file is reached.

built-in
  A command that is hard-coded into the shell.

cmd
  A command.

control operator
  A control operator allows the user to change the way in which the shell
  executes a command.

cwd
  Current working directory. The directory used by the shell to look for files
  or directories without the need to enter the entire filepath. i.e. If a file
  is in the cwd: /home/user/Documents the file can be accessed by entering
  filename as opposed to the entire filepath. Furthermore, if the cwd was /user
  and the user wanted to access a file in the Documents directory, the user can
  simply enter Documents/filename or ./Documents/filename.

environment
  A set of variables that contain information about the shell and the user's
  system.

environment path
  A set of filepaths the shell uses to look for files or directories. If a file
  or directory is not located in one of the filepaths or the cwd, it will not
  be opened. The environment path is defaulted to /bin. If the environment
  path is erased, only built-in commands can be run.

filename
  A string of characters representing the name of a directory or file within
  the system.

filepath
  A string of characters representing the path to a directory or file.

pipe
  A mechanism that allows one command to redirect it's output to another
  command's input.

stdin
  Standard input. This is the location a process will read information from.
  Defaults to the shell.

stdin
  Standard output. This is the location a process will read information from.
  Defaults to the shell.

            ---------------------------------------------------------


CONTROL OPERATORS

  Input Redirection

    cmd < filename
      -Changes the location of cmd's stdin to filename. Anytime cmd reads from
      stdin, it will read from filename instead of the shell. If filename is not
      in the cwd a filepath must be provided.

  Output Redirection

    cmd > filename
      -Changes the location of cmd's stdout to filename. All of cmd's output
      will be sent to filename instead of the shell. If filename does not exist,
      one is created in the cwd. If filename does exist, it is truncated. If
      filename is not in the cwd a filepath must be provided.

    cmd >> filename
      -Changes the location of cmd's stdout to filename. All of cmd's output
      will be sent to filename instead of the shell. If filename does not exist,
      one is created in the cwd. If filename does exist, it is appended. If
      filename is not in the cwd a filepath must be provided.

  Pipe-lining

    cmd1 | cmd2
      -Creates a pipe between cmd1 and cmd2. Cmd1 will send it's output to the
      pipe, where it will then be read by cmd2. Multiple pipes can be used to
      create a pipeline. i.e. cmd1 | cmd2 | cmd3 | .....

  Background Execution

    cmd &
      -When cmd is run without this operator, the shell will pause and wait for
      cmd to complete before executing any more commands. When this operator is
      used, the shell can continue executing commands as normal. Must be placed
      after any arguments.

  Parallel Execution

    cmd1 & cmd2
      -This allows both cmd1 and cmd2 to run concurrently. This can be used to
      run as many processes concurrently as the user wants.
      i.e. cmd1 & cmd2 & cmd3 & .....

            ---------------------------------------------------------


BUILT-IN COMMANDS

  These commands are built into the shell and are always available for
  execution regardless of the path. They are used to interact with the shell
  and and navigate the system's directories.

  cd filepath
    -Changes the cwd to filepath and prints the new cwd. Only one argument can
    be given. Entering more than one argument results in an error. If no
    argument is provided, the cwd is printed.

  clr
    -Clears all text from the shell. Any arguments results in an error;

  dir filepath
    -This prints the contents of the directory specified by filepath. If no
    filepath is given, the contents of the cwd are printed. If directory does
    not exist or more than one argument is provided, it is an error. Supports
    output redirection.

  environ
    -Prints the environment variables. Passing an argument results in an error.
    Supports output redirection.

  path filepath1 filepath2 .....
    -Changes the environment path to the filepaths provided. If any of
    the filepaths do not exist, it is an error. If no filepath is provided, the
    environment path is erased and only built-in commands can be run until a new
    filepath is specified.

  echo "string"
    -Prints the string input by the user. Output redirection is supported.

  help
    -Prints this manual. Passing an argument results in an error. Output
    redirection is supported.

  pause
    -Pauses the shell until enter is pressed. If any text is input before enter
    is pressed, the shell will remain paused. Passing an argument results in an
    error.

  quit
    -Exits the shell. Passing an argument results in an error.
